
Page 1
Credit Derivatives -- Credit Default SwapCredit derivatives are instruments that shift risk from one party to another. The mostcommon—a single-name credit default swap—exchanges a stream of periodic payments foran agreement to pay a notional amount if a specified third party, the reference entity, defaultson a bond or loan. The reference entity is usually a company or sovereign government. Theprice of buying protection with a CDS is typically given in basis point spreads, where a basispoint is 0.01 percent of the notional value of the deal.News NI CRA / CDRV News and views on credit analysis and credit derivatives that makeand break the market moves so that you can better gauge the direction of future credit spreadsTOP BON View top bond headlines NI BCY News on bankruptcies NI HYL News onhigh-yield bonds NI SWAPSCOL Follow the regular Swaps Focus columnCompany Credit AnalysisDDIS/DLISView the distribution of a company’s debt and loan structure, so that you can anticipate anyfuture re-financing problems and decide if and when it is in danger of default. You canrefine your search to only include the maturity and coupon as well as Facility and Purposetypes so that you can isolate bonds/loans that best match your specific investment criteria.Type ED558302 Corp DDIS <Go> to see loan and debt distribution of the issuer. The graphplots outstanding debt (vertical y-axis) for a range of maturity dates (horizontal x-axis). Debtappears in blue, and loans appear in red. If there are debt and loans maturing in the same year,the blue debt bar appears on top of the red loan bar. The graph data appears on the table to theright with the total amount of outstanding debt appearing at the bottom. The number of issuesunder analysis for the criteria chosen appears below the table. The graph and table display amaximum of 24 years or 20 quarters. Any debt maturing during and after the 24th year or 20thquarter is grouped together in the 24th year or 20th quarter. Page forward to the next page toexport the data to Excel or edit the columns for display.
Page 2
Altman’s Z-score uses sophisticated models to assess the financial health and outlook of acompany, and estimate the one-year probability of default, so you can more accurately gaugethe relevant credit quality of a reference entity. AZS does not calculate a score for financialinstitutions, because one of the model inputs, working capital, is not available for suchcompanies. TO ACCESS: {ticker symbol} {exchange code} <EQUITY> AZS <Go>FTE FP <EQUITY> AZS <Go>VOD6.25 7/10/08 <CORP> AZS <Go>CRVDCRVD Credit Relative Value helps you identify the relative richness/cheapness of anissuer’s cash bonds, generate trade ideas, and spot trade opportunities. The functioncombines TRACE data, key equity prices, and CDS spreads for a specific issuer withTRACE price and spread information for the cash bonds.The Credit Relative Value screen includes the following sections:CDS Curve SectionThis section defaults to the Bloomberg Generic Average Price (CBGN) curve, which you canoverride to create a custom curve.TRACE Eligible Bond ListDisplay TRACE eligible cash bonds of the target issuer and key relative value statisticsincluding spread to benchmark, Z-spread and CDS spread, based on the most recent TRACEprices and/or data you enter.Relative Value GraphDetermine the relative richness/cheapness of individual cash bonds by plotting their
Page 3
Z-spreads against the issuer’s CDS curve.Press Edit button on the top of the screen to edits functions that can be performed on thebonds listed, filter bonds by credit ratings, and edit columns for display.Market ContributorsUse MRKT to locate contributors who have a Bloomberg page providing prices/rates andfrequencies of prices/rates for a specific market. MRKT initially displays a menu of currentmarkets. Once you select a category, a sub-menu of countries or a list of current marketsectors appears, depending on your selection. If you select a country from a submenu ofcountries, the corresponding list of market sectors appears.ALLQ compares all the spread quotes you have permission to see on one screen for a specificCDS for a reference entity so that you can determine which provider gives the best value. You
Page 4
can sort through all available pricing sources by source code, firm name, time, bid, and askprice, and display a quick overview of the exchange dealers to identify the best market pricesand display contact information. ALLQ uses real-time bid and ask prices, refreshing thescreen information with each updated price.CDS Defaults (Jones, 2006) Use CDSD Credit Default Swap Spread Curves to set upcurve defaults for par CDS spreads curves, user defaults, user-defined curves, andcontributors. CDSD allows you to choose your default price sources for different currencies,market sectors, debt types and reference entities, search for CDS tickers for a particularreference entity, or look up the spread curve for a given CDS ticker. You can also choose theinterpolation method for your spread curves, CDS ticker pricing method for missing points,FMC curve construction method, and the CDS calculation default model.Type CDSD <Go>. You can download a list of reference entities with their name, tickers,
Page 5
currency and debt type and a list of reference entities with their names, tickers,currency and all available CDS tickers for an entity supported by Bloomberg byclicking 16 and 17. You can match CDS tickers with reference entities by clicking 18 or 19.Select 14) User Defaults to set your user defaults. There are five pages of user defaultsettings.The first page shows CDS Spread Curve Defaults. You can choose whether your CDS curveterm points will be generated by standard maturities from the effective dates of the contract orby fixed dates. Credit derivatives usually trade until fixed dates: March 20, June 20, Sept. 20and Dec. 20, or the next business day if that date would be a holiday. Because the fixed datesare close to the cycle of dates used by the International Monetary Market at the ChicagoMercantile Exchange, they’re known as IMM maturities. To use IMM maturities, tab in to thefield below IMM Override, enter 2 for IMM Maturities and press <Go>. Type 1 <Go> to savethe changes, and press <Page Fwd> to go to the next page.The CDS Deal Defaults section lets you choose which model you use to mark to market CDSdeals. The models calculate cumulative default probabilities, which they use to determine the
Page 6
market value of a CDS. To select the JPMorgan model, tab in to the field under CDS DefaultModel and enter J. (Please refer to Appendix for explanations of JPMorgan model and theModified Hull-White model.) The field beneath CDSW Default Date Generation Method letsyou choose a method for determining the maturity date of a new deal. For example, if youenter 1 for Backward (No IMM), a five-year CDS beginning on June 1, 2006, would run untilJune 1, 2011. If you enter 2 for IMM, the deal would run until June 20, 2011.On this page, you can also choose whether to value single-name CDSs and CDS indexes byusing standard, live interest rate swap curves or the new swap curves that are locked downdaily. The models use interest rate swap curves to present-value the probability-weighted cashflows from CDS trades. Although CDS valuations are not very sensitive to changes in swaprates, if you’re trying to reconcile trade values, even small discrepancies caused by changes inthe swap benchmark curves can cause problems. Using locked-down swap curves ensures thatyou get consistent valuations throughout the day. To use the locked-down curves, tab in to thefield below Default Benchmark Curve for Single Name CDS Valuation and enter 2 for DailyLock Benchmark Curve. Type <Go> 1 <Go> and press <Page Fwd>.The CDS Application Defaults section lets you choose which CDS market trading day to use:New York, London or Tokyo. This setting determines which time zone is used in the WorldCredit Default Swap Pricing (WCDS) function and which prices appear at the top of the AllQuotes (ALLQ) function. Press <Page Fwd>.CDS overridesCDS overrides allow you to extend CDSW pricing capabilities to an Excel based environment.The following enhancements are now available:Up to 21 override fields (inputs) and 10 reactive fields (outputs)CDS curves that you can fully or partially overrideOutputs that can be calculated for specific dates in the pastBoth JP Morgan and Hull & White pricing modelsCalculations for both CDS single spreads and CDS Indices
Page 7
The CDS Spread Curve Currency Override section enables you to set up a total of 10 currencypairs for retrieving CDS spread curves. CDS functions always look for the curve with theoriginal currency first. If the curve cannot be found in the original currency and you set upCDSD to override the original currency with another currency, the function will make a secondattempt to look for the CDS curve with the override currency.List of Overrides and Reactive FieldsOverrides (Inputs)FormatSW_EFF_DTEffective DateYYYYMMDDMATURITYMaturity DateYYYYMMDDFIRST_CPN_DTFirst Coupon DateYYYYMMDDCDS_NEXT_LAST_CPN_DATE Next to Last Coupon DateYYYYMMDDSW_SPREADDeal SpreadBasis pointsSW_PAY_NOTL_AMTNotionalCRNCYCurrencySW_PAY_FREQPayment FrequencyM/Q/S/ASW_CURVE_DTCurve DateYYYYMMDDSETTLE_DTSettlement DateYYYYMMDDCDS_RRRecovery Rate (not availablefor CDS indices)From 0.001 to 1CDS_FLAT_SPREADFlat SpreadCDS_6MPar Spread Curve 6 MonthsCDS_1YPar Spread Curve 1 YearBasis pointsCDS_2YPar Spread Curve 2 YearsBasis pointsCDS_3YPar Spread Curve 3 YearsCDS_4YPar Spread Curve 4 YearsBasis pointsCDS_5YPar Spread Curve 5 YearsBasis pointsCDS_7YPar Spread Curve 7 YearsBasis pointsCDS_10YPar Spread Curve 10 YearsBasis pointsReactive Fields (Outputs)SW_NET_ACC_INTNet Accrued InterestSW_PAY_ACC_INTPay Accrued InterestSW_REC_ACC_INTReceive Accrued InterestSW_VAL_PREMIUMValue of Premium (single spread CDS deals areequivalent to the PRINCIPAL field; CDS indices areequivalent to the MARKET VALUE field)SW_EQV_BPVEquivalent Basis Point Value (Native of Spread DV01 onCDSW)SW_CNV_BPVConventional Basis Point Value (Native of Spread DV01on CDSW)
Page 8
SW_MARKET_VALSwap Market Value (a single spread CDS deal isequivalent to the MARKET VALUE field; CDS indicesare equivalent to the TOTAL VALUE field)SW_MARKET_VAL_PRIOR Swap Yesterday's Market value (CSDW Market Valuewith Curve Date is equal to the prior day)SW_MARKET_VAL_CHG CDS Change in Market ValueCDS_REPLCDS Replacement SpreadSWAP_CURVE_BPVSwap Curve BPV (IR DV01 in CDSW, sensitivity toshifts in risk-free rates)PX_EVALEvaluation Price (Trading System function)Type DOCS 2019614 <Go> to download CDS Overrides and Excel Examples byBloomberg.Press <Page Fwd>. The CDS ISDA Defaults for CDSW section enables you to set defaults forthe restructuring type, the credit events you want to include in the protection and the year andregion of the ISDA master agreement you want to use. You can override these choices forindividual deals in the Credit Default Swap (CDSW) function. Type 1 <Go> to update, andpress <Menu> to return to the main CDSD page.To set your pricing contributor preferences, type 15 <Go> or press Pricing Source Defaults.You can select price contributors for different combinations of industry and currency. Thesources that are available to you, including live, tradable prices, appear in amber on the rightside of the screen. Press <Page Fwd> to see all of them.
Page 9
In addition to the external price contributors available to you, there are also six BloombergGeneric prices you can select. These are average prices that are computed intraday and generatetwo sets of data: three intraday price sources (CBIN, CBIL and CBIT) that close locally at about6 p.m. in New York and London and 8 p.m. in Tokyo and three historical snapshots (CBGN,CBGL and CBGT) taken at 5 p.m. local time in each of the three regional markets.The Bloomberg Generic CDS Intraday prices are arithmetic means of all included contributorspreads (including those you might not have access to individually) that were received duringthe previous rolling 24 hours. A new intraday price is posted only when there’s a newcontributor price, and only then if there’s at least one other price in the last 24 hours aside fromthe one that initiates the intraday calculation. If there are five or more contributed spreads, thehighest and lowest are excluded from the calculation.You can enter codes for as many as four contributors in the fields under Contributor Preferences.CDS analysis functions will select pricing contributors in order of priority from left to right foreach maturity point along the CDS curve: If your first choice doesn’t provide a spread, thenyour second choice will be used, and so on. Enter the four-letter codes, which appear in whitefor sources available to you, for the contributors you want to use, and then type <Go> 1 <Go>.
Page 10
Press <Menu> to return to the main CDSD screen, where you can search for CDS spread curvesby industry or country of issuer. To search for CDS spread curves on sovereign issuers, click onGovernment under Market Sector. To find U.S. dollar CDS spreads on bonds issued byMexico, for example, enter USD in the Currency field and press <Page Fwd> twice. Click onMexico Government Intl Bond. You can also find these spreads by entering the ticker forMexico, MEX, in the Corporate Ticker field at the top of the main CDSD screen and then typing<Go> 99 <Go>.You can also search for CDS spread curves on a company by entering its ticker in the CorporateTicker field. For example, to search for CDS curves on General Motors Corp., enter GM in thefield and type <Go> 99 <Go>.User defaults and contributor preferences set in CDSD are applied in all functions related tocredit derivatives. In addition, they’re applied in proprietary spreadsheets you’ve created inMicrosoft Excel that use Bloomberg’s application programming interface to tap BloombergCDS data.
Page 11
CDS Bloomberg tickersThe CDS market has no convention for identifiers such as standardized tickers orinternational securities identification numbers. To help, the Bloomberg service assignstickers that associate CDSs with the term to maturity and the issuer of the underlying credit.For example, type CGMACE5 <Crncy> <Go> to access a five-year euro-denominatedCDS with General Motors Acceptance Corp. debt as the underlying credit. Similarly, typeeither CGMACU10 <Crncy> <Go> for a 10-year, dollar denominated CDS on GMAC orCGMACU5 <Crncy> <Go> to access data on a five-year GMAC CDS denominated indollars. You can type DES <Go> to find the one-year high and low prices for the five-yearGMAC CDS as well as access a link to corporate bonds issued by GMAC and its affiliates.Reference Entities ListMarkit Group Ltd.’s Reference Entity Database can help you avoid mismatches for CDSmarket participants. In 2002, Deutsche Bank AG, Goldman Sachs Group Inc. and JPMorganChase & Co. embarked on an initiative to create an industry wide standard database of bondissuers and their obligations. The investment banks called this reference entity databaseProject RED. In August 2003, they sold the database to London-based Markit Group and tookan equity stake in the company.RED codes link debt issuers to their obligations using Cusip-linked pair codes, orCLIPs—unique identifiers determined by the Cusip Service Bureau. The first six characters ofthe nine-character CLIPs represent the reference entity, and the last three represent thereference obligation. The database of audited legal reference entity names, referenceobligations and pair codes has to be continuously updated because of the changes caused bymergers, acquisitions, divestitures and companies entering the debt market for the first time.Pair codes designate a specific reference entity and debt obligation. RED is fully integratedwith the Bloomberg Professional service, DJ CDX and iTraxx indexes and the major creditbrokers, as well as CDS clearing companies such as Depository Trust & Clearing Corp. andSwapsWire. Since June 2005, CLIPs have been mandatory for matching trades on DTCC.
Page 12
Type REDL <go> to use the Reference Entities List function to access the entire database ofmore than 2,700 reference entity/obligation pairs and CLIPs. REDL shows you therelationship between the Bloomberg company names and the RED reference entities, the legalnames of the companies. Click on a name on the REDL screen to see the reference entity, theidentification numbers of the associated reference obligations and the RED pair codes.Yes appears to the right of Is Preferred to indicate the RED pair that’s most used for theselected reference entity and tier of debt. The preferred information comes from credit indexes,DTCC settlements and dealers in the CDS market.You can now search for RED reference entities directly from the Credit Default Swap (CDSW)function. CDSW lets you save the RED reference obligation and pair code with your deal.Single-Name CDSASW and CDSWWhen an issuer defaults on a payment, investors are still entitled to the full face amount of thebonds they hold. However, the defaulting company often is unable to repay the whole debt; itmay be able to pay only 40 cents for every dollar it owes, for example. A CDS would enablethe buyer to recover the debt at par, or 100 cents for every dollar. The size of the CDS spreadis a reflection of the market’s opinion on two factors: how probable it is that the issuer willdefault on its obligations and, if it does, how much bondholders would recover without creditprotection. A wider spread indicates that investors believe a default is more likely.Participants in the CDS market often use a company’s asset swap spread as a guide to the fair
Page 13
value of a CDS. The asset swap spread represents the swap market’s valuation of the bond.Type TELEFO 4.5 09 <Corp> ASW <Go> to use the Asset Swap Calculator to determine theasset swap spread, which appears in the red Spread (bp) area, for a Telefónica SA bond.The Z-spread also appears on the ASW screen. Both the asset swap spread and the Z-spreadcompare the gross price of the bond with its net present value, or the discounted value of itscash flows, in the swaps market. However, the asset swap spread is an annuity expressed inbasis points; the NPV of this plus the gross price of the bond equals the NPV of the bond’scash flows. In contrast, the Z-spread is a constant number of basis points added to each impliedzero-volatility swap rate; the NPV of the bond’s cash flows discounted using this adjustedcurve equals the bond’s total price. When spreads are small, the asset swap spread and theZ-spread will be similar. The spreads diverge for bonds from weaker credits trading atgenerally larger spreads, with the Z-spread tending to be higher. Both asset swap spreads andZ-spreads vary for each of a company’s individual bonds. In contrast, the quoted CDS spreadis based on the underlying reference entity—the bond issuer itself. Because of that, the cashspreads (asset swap spreads and Z-spreads) and the CDS spread are rarely the same. Thedifference between them is known as the CDS basis. An issuer’s CDS spread is usually largerthan the asset swap spreads of its bonds. Such a situation results in what’s known as a positivebasis.
Page 14
To create, store and price your CDS deals, call up a bond issued by the reference entity andtype CDSW <Go>. The CDSW screen consists of three areas: Deal Information, Calculatorand Spreads. The Deal section lets you enter a counterparty, ticker and series to customizeyour CDS. You can then enter a currency code in the first Business Days field to determinewhich country’s holidays are used when calculating the market value of the five-year CDS.For example, to check out a credit default swap on Telefónica, type TELEFO 4.5 4/14/09<Corp> CDSW <Go>. In the field below Business Day Adj, let’s keep B, indicating you wantto buy credit protection. (Entering S in that field indicates you want to sell credit protection.)Let’s also keep 10.00 MM in the Notional fields and USD in the Currency field, which meansyou want to purchase insurance on the principal amount the spreads are based on. You canthen enter 05/13/06 in the Effective Date field and 06/13/11 in the Maturity Date field to setthe period—in this case, five years—for which you’re purchasing protection. Enter 500 in theDeal Spread field, which sets the number of basis points per year that you as the buyer of theCDS will pay to the seller. (A basis point is0.01 percentage point.) Keep 1, for senior debt, in the Debt Type field. Under the spreadsheading, let’s keep S45, the relatively risk-free swap curve, as the benchmark yield curve.To bring in the contributor spread curve you set up using CDSD, tab in to the Sprds field in theupper right corner of the screen and enter C for Contributor; type 2 <Go> to save this as yourpricing source. Tab in to the Model field in the Calculator section to choose a model to use inthe valuation of the CDS. Both the modified Hull-White model and theJ.P. Morgan model are popular for deriving a value for a CDS that you can compare with aquoted price. For more information on the models offered within CDSW, type CDSW <Help>9 <Go> and click on a model name. These spreads are the number of basis points added to theswap curve to create a curve specific to that of Telefónica. The values in the fields in theSpreads (bps) column represent the swap spread added to the benchmark curve to create arisky curve for the CDS deal. The last value we’ll look at in the Spreads section of the screen isthe recovery rate, which is the estimated residual value that the seller should expect to receivein the event the third party defaults. Keep it at 0.40, which means the CDS buyer will receive
Page 15
40 percent of the principal. The value of the CDS appears in white after Market Value at thebottom of the screen. Specifically, it’s the cash advantage or disadvantage on the specific dealthat allows you to value the CDS. Depending on your deal spread, the resulting market valuewill be either positive or negative. The replacement spread is the spread that would price theCDS at a market value of zero. If the deal spread is greater than the replacement spread, thepremium being paid on the CDS is out of the money; if the deal spread is less than thereplacement spread, the premium is in the money, making it advantageous to buy protection.To see the coupon dates or cash flows associated with the CDS, click on the View button onthe tool bar, and select Coupon Dates or Cashflows.Name the Counterparty and ticker. Type 1 <Go> to save the deal. To access all of your storedCDS trades, type /ALLNEW <corp> and click the deal you want to value.France Télécom SA, Ford Motor Co., General Motors Corp., Daimler-Chrysler AG andGeneral Electric Co. have been among the companies most featured in credit derivativescontracts.
To compare CDS quotes on DaimlerChrysler AG and General Motors Corp., for instance, typeCDSD <Go> 3 <Go> and press <Page Fwd> to find DaimlerChrysler. Click there to find theticker symbol for a five-year CDS on DaimlerChrysler senior debt; you can find the ticker fora General Motors CDS in the same way. You can also type CDSD GM USD <Go> to accessGeneral Motors’ U.S. dollar–denominated CDS spread curves. Type CDCX1U5 <Crncy>CGM1U5 <Crncy> HS <Go> <Page Fwd> to see how the price of credit protection on the twocompanies has changed. CDS spreads for the two automakers tend to move in tandem; creditprotection on GM was 886 basis points more expensive than a DaimlerChrysler CDS. Go topage 3 for historical daily spread.World CDS PricesUse WCDS to monitor current values and changes to Bloomberg Generic spreads for CreditDefault Swap spreads as they relate to intraday and regional end-of-day pricing sources. Youcan customize search by type, currency, sector and term.
You have the following options:To choose the CDS index type, currency and sector, click on the arrow to the right ofthe highlighted Type field and choose the appropriate option from the dropdown menu.To display the credit default swaps spread curves for a specific company, click on acompany name and choose the appropriate option from the menu that appears. The CreditDefault Swap Spread Curves function (CDSD) appears in another window. CDSD <HELP>displays further information.To display related functions in order to further analyze a credit default swap thatappears in the monitor, click on the appropriate ticker and choose the appropriate option fromthe dropdown menu.You can sort the reference names by time of last update, CDS spread, or end-of-day changeeither by absolute value or percentage change so that you can see which credits have been themost active. It uses CDS Bloomberg Generic Average Prices, which are prices based on allCDS contributors not just those you have permission to see, so that you can be confident ofseeing independent, reliable results.Basket Default SwapsMorgan Stanley Basket Default Pricer (CDSM) (Lipman and Wood, 2005) The newMorgan Stanley Basket Default Pricer (CDSM) function enables you to analyze and valuecredit derivatives known as basket default swaps and synthetic collateralized debt obligations.Basket default swaps are credit default swaps in which a buyer pays a fee, or premium, topurchase credit protection on a group of debt issuers. Synthetic CDOs are packages ofindividual credit default swaps.Valuing basket default swaps is more complex than valuing a single-name credit default swapof a single issuer because it depends on default correlation, the tendency for credit qualitychanges of an issuer in the basket to coincide with those of another issuer in the basket.
CDSM uses Morgan Stanley’s credit correlation models to calculate this joint defaultprobability using the Gaussian Copula method so that you can price both large and smallbaskets.CDSM can value basket default swaps with as many as 150 debt issuers with heterogeneousrecoveries and notionals. The recovery expresses the percentage of principal that debt holderscan receive if an issuer defaults; notional refers to the face value of the debt. Type CDSM<Go> and click on the Basket button on the tool bar and 3) Uploading from an excel spreadsheet to begin importing basket information from Microsoft Excel. Note that you can’t savethe basket. You also have an option to load tickers from CDS indices such as CDX and ITRXor manually enter the tickers

You can download a sample list of tickers from CDX athttp://firestone.princeton.edu/econlib/blp/docs/partialCDX.xls.
Page 19
You should create an Excel worksheet that has 14 columns containing issuer names, notionals,recovery rates and half-year-through-10-year credit spread curve data. The worksheetshouldn’t contain any empty cells. You can enter 0 for some of the points on the spread curve,and CDSM will interpolate the values of those points based on the other spread data youentered. Highlight all of the data in the spreadsheet, excluding the column headings and itemnumber, and drag and drop it into the Basket Setup/Sensitivities screen. Click on SpreadCurves on the tool bar to check that the points on the curve are filled in correctly.

Click Calculate DVXs toolbar button to calculate DVXs and Hedge Amounts. ClickDownload to Excel to export data to Excel. Next, click on the Deal Info button on the tool barto return to the main CDSM screen.Tab in to the Effective Date and Maturity Date fields, and enter the contract dates for the deal.Then tab in to the Deal Spread field, and enter the spread in basis points. (A basis point is 0.01percentage point.) To price a loss basket using implied default correlation, tab in to the Typefield under the Basket Info heading, and enter L. A loss basket means that the swap providesprotection for a loss that is equal to a percentage of the debt of the specified tranche. Tab in to
Page 20
the Attach Point and Detach Point fields under the Calc Info heading, and enter the beginningand end points of the range for the loss basket in order to define the tranche. Next, tab in to theCorr Mode field, and enter I to specify implied correlation. Tab in to the Implied Corr field,and enter a value. Press <Go> and click on Price Deal to calculate the basket default swap’svalue. The deal values appear in the Calculator section of the screen. The values includeprincipal, or net present value of the swap contract excluding accrued premium; accrued,which is the premium accrued between the last payment date and the settlement date; andmarket value, which is the net present value of the remaining expected cash flows and equalsthe principal plus the accrued values. The replacement spread, which is the cost of protectionon the basket in basis points per year, also appears, along with the spread DVX, which showsthe sensitivity of the basket price to changes in spread. Click Price Deal to get Market Valueof the deal. Note that you can’t save this deal.Nth-to-default basket swapUse CDSN to create and value an nth to default basket swap (N2D), a type of basket defaultswap. An N2D is a contract in which the buyer purchases credit protection on the basket ofreference names, in return for a stream of payments. When the Nth name (of a basket of Mnames, N<=M) defaults, the buyer is "made whole" for that name and the contract isterminated. You can choose whether the payout is triggered by the first, second orsubsequent credit event (1st-to-default, 2nd-to-default, etc), use flat correlations, recoveryrates and spreads or input your own values and elect either the market-standard Gaussiancopula or Clayton copula to estimate cross-relationships between the basket constituents.Type CDSN <Go> and click Basket button to create a basket of up to 20 names. To search forreference entity, enter a partial company name in the Company Name field and/or otherinformation in the corresponding highlighted fields, then press <Go>. The Curve List windowappears. Select a curve by clicking on it. Press <MENU> to go back to Deal Information page.Click Reprice Deal to price the deal. Click Deal/Save Deal to save the deal.
Page 21
Type DOCS 2010998 <Go> to download the basket default swap correlation estimation modelin Excel.CDS IndicesEnter CDSI <Go>, a list of CDS indices products appears. Choose an option from the list, orenter {menu number} <Go>, to display all of the credit default swaps for the specified ticker.To display the Corporate Main Menu for any of the credit default swaps on the list, click onthe desired swap, or enter {menu number} <Go>.For example, select DJ CDX Indices and select CDX6 for the latest series. SelectCDX.NA.HY.6 for CDX North America High Yield CDS index and type CDSW <Go> toview CDS deal information.Credit Default SwaptionsUse CDSO to value options (swaptions) on a credit default swap index. Once you choose an
Page 22
index from the Credit Default Swap Indices function (CDSI) and enter CDSO <Go>, the CreditDefault Swaption screen appears.To create a credit default swaping (CDS option), enter the appropriate counterparty's name andticker symbol in the corresponding highlighted fields, then click on Deal > Save Deal from thetoolbar or enter 1 <Go>.To display your saved credit default swaption(s) in the Interest Rate Swaps function(SALL), enter /ALLNEW <CORP> SALL <Go>.Amortizing CDSYou can use the Credit Default Swap (CDSW) function to analyze and value credit defaultswaps on amortizing assets. Some corporate bonds, mortgage-backed securities, derivativesbased on MBSs and syndicated loans have amortizing principal amounts, which means theamount of principal outstanding on the debt changes over time. The changing principal, ornotional, amount makes a CDS on an amortizing asset fundamentally different from aplain-vanilla credit default swap, whose payoff amount is based on the concept of a constantnotional value of the underlying asset. The amortization schedule is predetermined at thesettlement of the CDS or issue of the underlying security and is adjustable over the life of theCDS.
Page 23
For an example of using CDSW to value a credit derivative on an amortizing asset, type01F052615 <Mtge> CDSW AMORT <Go> to analyze a CDS on an MBS issued by FannieMae. The principal balance of the MBS decreases over time as holders of the mortgagesunderlying the bond prepay their mortgages. Click on the Amortization button on the red toolbar to see that the CDSW calculation assumes that the bond’s original balance is paid down on348 monthly dates at a prepayment speed, measured in PSA, of175. The prepayment speed comes from your default mortgage prepayment model. You cancustomize the amortization schedule to reflect your own prepayment assumptions. Press<Menu> and enter 100 and MM in the Notional fields and 12 in the Deal Spread field. Enter06/14/16 in the Maturity Date field to base the analysis on buying protection for the next 10years. Press <Go> to calculate the market value. The Sprd DV01 value at the bottom of thescreen shows how much the CDS value would change if the CDS curve shifted by 1 basis point.IR DV01 is the change in Market Value when the swap curve is increased by one basis point.You can also use CDSW to value credit derivatives based on baskets of MBSs or amortizingloans. To take the custom amortization schedules of these securities into account in CDSW,type CDSW AMORT <Go> without selecting a security. Click on the Amortization button todisplay the amortization schedule with all zeros for values. Open the Microsoft Excel
Page 24
spreadsheet with your custom amortization schedule, highlight the amortization data and datesand drag and drop them into the CDSW amortization schedule, which states amounts as apercentage of the original principal. For indexes of MBSs, you should include allowances forwritedowns and writeups and interest rate shortfalls and repayments in the amortizingpercentages. For amortizing loans, you should adjust the percentages of amortizationaccording to the exposure at default because the percentage of the loan facility remaining to beadded to the exposure depends on the borrower’s credit rating.CSDRUse CSDR Sovereign Debt Rating to look up ratings of direct and guaranteed debt issued bysovereign governments. The ratings represent a government's ability to meet its publicly helddebt obligations. They also establish a ratings ceiling for debt issued by other organizationslocated within that country and can provide insight into how high a bond's rating may climb.CSDR displays FOREIGN CURRENCY and LOCAL CURRENCY tables for countries inseven global regions and for Euro Countries. Foreign currency ratings apply to debtdenominated in a currency other than the issuing country's domestic currency. Local currencyratings apply to debt denominated in the issuing country's domestic currency. The tables aredivided into Long Term (LT) Debt and Short Term (ST) Debt.

FPRP CDS / Z-SPREADUse FPRP to find quickly the data codes (calcrouts) of key credit spread information so thatyou can build download data to Excel. Type CDOW1U5 <CRNCY> FPRP CDS <Go> toview variables available for Dow Chemical CDS with ticker CDOW1U5 <CRNCY>.
Page 26
Type CDOW1U5 <CRNCY> HP <Go> to display daily spread. You can use History Wizardin Excel to download historical data to an Excel spread sheet.This is by no means a complete list of functions for bond analytics. Please go to <CORP>screen for a menu of tools available for fixed income securities. Remember to press <help> tolearn more about each command. Please go to Bloomberg Help page athttp://firestone.princeton.edu/econlib/blp/bloomberg.htm for other guides.AppendixThe JPMorgan Credit Default Swap Model
Page 27
Page 28
The Modified Hull-White Credit Default Swap Model
Page 29
Page 30
References:*Jones, Peter. The ABC of CDSs, Bloomberg Markets, July 2006.**Lipman, Harry and Wood, Mary K. Valuing basket default swaps, March 2005.Bloomberg Market
