> In the LNG 
Only one third of the price 
Long term commitment 
> 3:56 https://youtu.be/_SYcFAvc7HQ
> I want to start by telling you something very simple. Something that
I'm sure either you know or you think you know. That is, what is the difference between oil and gas? Because people often extrapolate from one to the other. And oil and gas are not brother and sister. They are second cousins. Far away from each other. The fact they have carbon and hydrogen each, does not mean there is an affinity in the family. And especially in the global market. In the global market, oil and gas, or oil and LNG, are far away from each other, much more than oil and gas in the United States would be.
> 
> Now, three things I want to start about the big differences.
> 4:40
> 1. Oil is like dating. Gas is like getting married.
> The reason is that in oil you can date and change your mind. In gas, you cannot change your mind, especially if you're in LNG business. You have to have long term contracts. You need to have a house, a car, mortgage, tv, kids. All these things are infrastructure. Infrastructure is what gets you. And that biggest component of the costs is infrastructure. If you think for example today, any LNG from US, let's say tomorrow, LNG from US was reaching Asia market, only one third of the price would be the price of gas. Two thirds are infrastructure. So we need to keep in mind the role of infrastructure is very important and It requires long term commitment.
> 
> Long term commitment also means if you make a mistake, you're stuck with it. In the oil market, you make a mistake, you correct it. But in the LNG business, you better be sure because you're stuck with it for many years.
> 
> A lot of people mistakenly think that the volumes which are exported from the US is going to be like, spy, buy and sell on the spot, no. All of the volumes from the US are sold on the 20 year, take or pay contracts, exactly the same way as indexed prices. This means the level of commitment on the part of the buyer is very dramatic.
> 
> 
> 2. *You produce the oil first, then you sell it. In the LNG side, you have to sell it first, then produce it.*
> 




People often extrapolate from one to another. 

> The Monetary System has never been healed, and one reason why, one big reason why, is the repo market.  The Repo Market has existed under a, what’s essentially a, collateral shortage.  There isn’t enough of the best quality collateral for people to – when I say “people”, I really mean, you know, mostly banks and financial institutions, not just in the US, you know, that’s what I was talking about with off-shore – this is a global system where everybody trades and funds in US dollars and US dollar positions – so there is really a shortage of the best quality collateral to work in the repo markets.  And because of that, that’s one constraint upon why haven’t we moved past 2008, why haven’t we moved past the financial crisis?  And a big reason is, because there’s a collateral problem. And it’s a collateral problem the Fed doesn’t really have any real ability to fix. The repo market was filled with not just treasuries treated as best collateral, but also mortgage bonds.  The mortgage bond market, and – and agency bonds too, which are, you know, the GSE’s to get involved in the mortgage market too – so, you have to think of, a lot of the collateral, what was treated as the best quality collateral in the system, up until the housing bubble, was the assets of the housing bubble itself.  And so all of those sub-prime and prime mortgage tranches that were, you know, rejected during the crisis, up until then had been treated in the repo market as the same as treasuries.  So, as the crisis evolved, what happened was, the repo market started to reject all those mortgage bonds, all those MBS securities. – We’re just not going to take them.  Or, we’re not going to take them on the same terms as we’re taking repo.  So, effectively, the collateral list, of the stuff that is highly prized, pristine collateral, that list got pared almost in half at the on-set of the crisis.
> 
> […]
> 
> There is a very tortured history behind the repo market.  That gets into why it’s called a repurchase agreement in the older days.  It actually was a purchase and a sale.  So, in essence, you’re agreeing to sell a security and buy it back at a pre-determined time.  But that gets into all sorts of other details about who owns the asset while the transaction is going on, and there was a whole bunch of court cases, Supreme Court cases, tax law, that defined, you know, is this really a repurchase agreement or is it really a collateralized overnight loan.  And it doesn’t have to be overnight – it can be term loan – but, essentially, most of these are overnight loans.  And what happened over time, especially in the 70s and 80s, is that it evolved into, “it’s not really a repurchase agreement – that’s what we call it”, and so it’s the short-hand of “repo,” because it’s actually a collateralized interbank overnight loan.  There’s no actual transfer of title involved, the collateral posted is really, you know, if I’m borrowing cash from you and putting up a US treasury bond as collateral, I still own the bond, even though it’s in your possession.
> 
> […]
> 
> Essentially what has happened – is that at various times over the last 12 years – the system itself has tried to make up for that shortages of collateral, by doing really strange, and in some ways, some really, don’t know the right word for it, but things that really make your skin crawl.  They’ve taken, what is essentially, what you talk, about “securities transformation”, they’ve taken what is essentially a junk bond and borrowed, uh, swapped it for a US Treasury.  I’m talking about one financial counterparty to essentially a bank dealer.  And then, the party that started with a junk credit, has now swapped it for a US Treasury credit, and then takes that Treasury credit into the repo market, because otherwise, you show up to the repo market with a junk credit, you’re not going to get the same terms.  Which is what you were talking about.  What is the real -- what is the real rate that should be in the repo market?  The repo market only sees that treasury, even though that treasury doesn’t really belong to the person that’s presenting it to the repo market (or the financial counterparty that’s presenting it to the repo market).  And, so, there’s been a lot of “securities transformation” that takes place, especially in the last few years, in the global repo market, that has essentially hidden or, um, masked a bunch of risky behaviors, that I think these dealers probably understand very well – not only the nature of those risks but also the degree to which they’ve happened.  So, one of the reasons I think they’re increasingly shy and sitting on their hands no matter what the repo rate rises to, is because they know that the collateral system, the way that the system has tried to deal with the collateral shortage by essentially manufacturing new collateral in very unsavory ways.  That, it presents, another sense of risk, that, there, then, taking as, “Hey, you know, I don’t really want to do this liquidity stuff, because I know there’s a lot more risk out there than people realize is taking place.”
> - Jeff Snider, Alhambra Investments
