From Chapter 9 of "Wins, Losses and Lessons: An Autobiography" by Lou Holtz:

What Behavior Are You Willing To Accept?

The one word most often used to describe my coaching style through the years has been "disciplinarian."  Some people look at this as a derogatory comment, but I think being called a "disciplinarian" is a compliment.  I don't know how anyone can be a successful parent, teacher, coach, manager, entrepreneur, husband, wife, or friend without understanding the role discipline plays in life, and without in some form or another being a good disciplinarian.  Far from shying away from it, I've worked hard to be the firmest and fairest disciplinarian possible, whether it has been as a parent, a coach, or the manager of a staff.  Discipline is not what you to do someone, but what you do for them.

Every construct in life requires discipline.  Marriages require both spouses to suppress their selfish urges for the good of the relationship.  That is a form of discipline, and the consequences of not following those rules are a troubled marriage.  If you don't have enough self-discipline to pay your monthly bills, you will soon suffer the consequences while sitting in the dark.  If, as a parent, you don't discipline your children, they grow up without any boundaries, which damages them well into adulthood.  If you have no discipline in the workplace, then an "anything goes" attitude will soon prevail, and your company will be in trouble.  In government, we have laws that impose consequences upon certain actions society deems unacceptable.  And in my profession, achievement, performance, and teamwork are rewarded, while a lack of those qualities requires corrective action: discipline.  If enforcing standards has made me a disciplinarian, then I gladly accept the title and plead guilty as charged.

A parable I always use to make the point about the importance of discipline involves two young men, each of whom owned a new puppy.  The first young man showered his puppy with love and affection, and allowed the dog to do whatever it wanted.  No restrictions, only unconditional love and freedom.  The other young man loved his puppy as well, but he also put a choke collar on the animal.  Anytime the dog behaved improperly, the young man would tug on the choke collar.  It didn't take long for that dog to realize that there were limitations on his freedom.

A year later, the second young man was able to take the choke collar off of his dog, and the dog roamed the neighborhood.  The owner didn't worry, because he knew that the dog would obey his commands, that he wouldn't bite anyone or destroy property, and he wouldn't abuse the freedoms the owner had given him.  The dog understood that actions had consequences.  The first young man could not give his dog those same freedoms.  If let loose, the first dog would have terrorized the neighborhood, destroyed property, and possibly harmed someone.  For those reasons, the dog had to remain confined indoors.

The freedom the first young man thought he was giving his dog by not disciplining him turned out to be exactly the opposite.  The lack of discipline became a lack of freedom.  The dog that had been properly disciplined and shown the boundaries of acceptable behavior was allowed to run free, because the owner loved the dog enough to discipline it.

When I finish telling this story, I always ask the athletes who have been forced to listen, "Now, the question I have for you is, do you want a choke collar for a year so that you can enjoy freedom for the rest of your life?  Or do you want to be coddled and never be free?"  It is a rhetorical question, but the point gets across.  My job as a coach was to prepare the young men on our teams for a life of success and happiness.  That life had to start with discipline (Holtz, 147-9).
